So what's the last part?
Finishing the order, okay?
That is not really complicated,
it's more of the same thing.
So, for finishing the cart,
I also have something similar to
the home page that we have list items.
So I also create a component for an order
item, so we have the design separately.
So to finish the cart, if you're
following along using the documentation,
we are now in fhapter five,
lesson seven, finishing the cart.
So here you have the steps.
This is also more copy and paste and
then I will explain maybe something that
is different but it's kind of crazy.
Another web component,
card item will not use Shadow DOM.
Remember why I'm not using Shadow DOM
on these items that we are repeating,
so we can share the document and
we can share CSS and everything for
that particular page.
It's not mandatory,
it's just one decision and
a way to show you that you don't
need to use Shadow DOM everywhere.
You decide on each web component
when to create a new document and
when to share the document
with the rest of the HTML.
So we are going to create CartItem.js.
That's another web component,
that doesn't have its own CSS because
it's sharing the CSS with its container.
This one has nothing special,
it's just filling data, just that.
It's reading the data differently,
you will see in a minute
where this is coming from.
That's cart item and
then we have order page, the whole page.
So I'm going to copy this.
It's long because it has also a form
that we will finish in a minute.
So this is OrderPage.js.
Go into paste OrderPage.js to
replace everything that I have here,
and I'm going to get rid of the default.
So let's see if that works and
then I will explain what's going on.
So first, if I'm going to the cart,
it says your order is empty,
so that's different, okay?
Is different from before.
We also need to solve a bag that we
have when we're going back to the home
that we don't see the home, okay?
So we need solved that problem later.
Why the router is not rendering the home,
that's a buyer.
So but if I add some feel it's either
black americano and two cappuccinos, so
I have three items.
If I'm going to the cart,
I see nothing, okay?
But I'm seeing something, but I'm not
seeing the items, so let's inspect that.
What's going on here?
It's great in me to cart items,
not three, why?
Because two were cappuccinos,
some of the same item which is okay,
but why is not rendering?
I'm not seeing the cart item rendering,
we already had that issue before.
Every time you create a new web component,
you need to call that web component.
And you say, yeah, but it's there.
Yeah, but we don't have Webpack.
We don't have any tool here that knows
that there is a JavaScript file that
need to be executed.
So the only way for the browser
to know at this point that there
is a new web component register
is to import that here.
If not, it's not going to work.
And we don't get an error
because the browser says, okay,
I will render this as an empty element.
Okay, that's not actually an error.
So in this case,
I'm going to add the cart item, like so.
A way to avoid this issue,
there is a way, or a design pattern to
avoid this problem forgetting
about importing the web component.
And that is,
instead of calling the customElements
define in each JavaScript file,
do that in app.js.
So if you copy this into app.js,
somewhere, where you declare all
your web components, you are forced to
import that and you will not forget.
And also you are defining this in app.js
and not in a separate file, okay?
But I did that because if
you're coming from a library,
you're used to do the setup
in a different file.
The problem with Vanilla JS is that
the browser doesn't know about all
your files in the server,
you have to call them.
Okay, so if you don't want to
have this problem, clone this,
copy all the define
declarations to the app.js or
to a JS specifically
targeting that purpose.
So now we can add, again,
a couple of things here.
And I can see the details,
two black americano,
three cappuccinos, one cold brew.
And if I delete one, it works.
And also look at this.
When we delete something,
it also updates the batch,
Because actually now we have two
listeners for the same event.
Because the order page
is also rendering when
the appcart change, as the app.js.
So we have here a component and
also an app.js that is global,
listening for the same window event.
If this was a document event,
it's not gonna work because
of different DOM's.
We have the original DOM and the Shadow
DOM, and then it's not going to be so
simple as adding an event listener with
document add event listener, okay?
Makes sense?
You have any questions?
Yeah.
>> It's strange that the HTML is there,
but wasn't showing up.
I don't understand why importing
the custom element does something to
render it.
In both cases, the HTML is there,
it seems like something should
be displayed in the browser.
>> So what's the problem?
So let me show you this.
So if I go to one of these templates,
now it can be the menu page templates and
add in frontendmasters-genius-code,
that's an HTML element.
So if I execute this, I don't see
the rendering, but it's in the DOM.
Because that's how browsers work.
And fortunately, let's say because
that's how we evolve HTML,
are the new elements and older browsers
will still try to render that.
So, here we have the
frontendmasters-genius-code, render, but
of course, nothing is inside.
So, the browser by default,
will render that in the DOM,
but empty, okay?
So it has no real rendering, but it's in
the DOM, it's not giving me an error,
it's just rendering it.
How the browser knows that there is
a class there that should be executed,
because it's a web component or
actually a custom element.
Well, you actually need to execute,
Define over custom elements.
So if in the JavaScript execution runtime
process you didn't call the fine,
the browser doesn't know about it.
So this is an ECMAScript module.
How does an ECMAScript module
call this to execute it?
If you import it.
When you, if I import in app.js one file,
even if, you can see it,
I'm not sure if you'll see that on
the video but it's kind of grayed out.
In VS code that says that case it's
like you're not using these objects,
but actually what I want
is kind of a side effect.
So a side effect of importing this
JavaScript file is that it's going to
execute the files.
An executing device will execute
custom elements that define.
That's why if you don't
want to have that problem,
one solution is to call
define somewhere else.
For example, in app.js, or
in another JavaScript file that you
call components.js, or
register.js, something like that.
This is like on Angular, if you don't add
a component in the array of components,
it's not gonna work,
something similar happens there.
So there are some frameworks where
you have this problem as well,
you have to register
the components that you wanna use.